h1. &lt;properties&gt;

Contains the list of properties accessible in the end user interface.

* Optional
* [0..1]
* Parent node: "&lt;page&gt;":manifest_root.textile#page--control, "&lt;control&gt;":manifest_root.textile#page--control
* Child nodes: "&lt;category&gt;":#category

<pre><code class="xml"><properties>
  <category id="general" name="General">
    <property xsi:type="standardProperty" id="renderingType" name="Rendering type" type="string">
      <description>Type of rendering</description>
      <value>classic</value>
      <options>
        <option value="classic" text="Classic"/>
        <option value="image" text="Image"/>
      </options>
    </property>
    <property xsi:type="standardProperty" id="singleImage" name="Image for single question" type="file" fileExtension=".png, .gif, .jpg">
      <description>Image of single question when the rendering type is image</description>
      <value>Single.png</value>
    </property>
    <property xsi:type="standardProperty" id="multipleImage" name="Image for multiple question" type="file" fileExtension=".png, .gif, .jpg">
      <description>Image of multiple question when the rendering type is image</description>
      <value>Multiple.png</value>
    </property>
    <property xsi:type="standardProperty" id="other" name="Open-ended question for semi-open" type="question">
      <description>Additional open-ended question that could be use to emulate semi-open</description>
    </property>
  </category>
</properties></code></pre>

h2. &lt;category&gt;

Category used to organize properties.

* [0..n]
* Parent node: "&lt;properties&gt;":#properties
* Child nodes: "&lt;property&gt;":#property ("&lt;property xsi:type=&quot;standardProperty&quot;&gt;":#property-xsitypestandardproperty , "&lt;property xsi:type=&quot;askiaProperty&quot;&gt;":#property-xsitypeaskiaproperty)

{background:#007dc5; color:white}. |Attribute name|Require|Type|Description|
|id|true|"xsd:NCName":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_NCName.html|Unique id of the category.
The id of the category could not be a reserved identifier.|
|name|true|"xsd:normalizedString":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_normalizedString.html|User friendly name of the category to show on the end user interface|
|collapsed *%{background:#444;color:white;padding:0 10px;}2.1.0%*|false|"xsd:boolean":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_boolean.html|Collapse this category by default (default: false)|

h2. &lt;property&gt;

Property exposed to the end-user in order to configure the ADX.

*Remarks:*

The &lt;property&gt; element is polymorphic, the usage of the _xsi:type_ attribute is require to make your XML file valid.
According to the _xsi:type_ attributes could be optional or have different behaviour.

Currently the &lt;property&gt; has 2 _xsi:type_:

* standardProperty Free property where the id is not reserved identifier (askiaProperty id)
"&lt;property&gt;":#property ("&lt;property xsi:type=&quot;standardProperty&quot;&gt;":#property-xsitypestandardproperty

* askiaProperty Property with special meaning for the system.
"&lt;property&gt;":#property ("&lt;property xsi:type=&quot;askiaProperty&quot;&gt;":#property-xsitypeaskiaproperty

h2. &lt;property xsi:type=&quot;standardProperty&quot;&gt;

* At least one require
* [1..n]
* Parent node: "&lt;category&gt;":#category
* Child nodes: "&lt;description&gt;":#description, "&lt;value&gt;":#value, "&lt;options&gt;":#options

{background:#007dc5; color:white}. |Attribute name|Require|Type|Description|
|xsi:type|true|"xsd:QName":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_QName.html|Must always be "standardProperty" for the standard property.|
|id|true|"xsd:NCName":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_NCName.html|Unique id of the property.
It use to facilitate the access by the AskiaScript.
The id of the property could not be a reserved identifier.
Also see:  "&lt;property xsi:type=&quot;askiaProperty&quot;&gt;":#property-xsitypeaskiaproperty|
|name|true|"xsd:normalizedString":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_normalizedString.html|User friendly name of the property to show on the end user interface|
|type|true|Enumeration based on "xsd:NCName":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_NCName.html
*_string_*
Property as string.
The string could be validate against a regular expression using the pattern attribute.
*_number_*
Property as number.
The number could be restricted using the min/max/decimal attributes.
*_boolean_*
Property as boolean.
The value must be true or false.
*_color_*
Property as color.
The format of the color could be specify using the colorFormat attribute.
*_file_*
Property as string.
Indicate the name of a resource file already register in the survey.
This file must be on the survey and accessible in the ../Resources/[Survey name]/ path.
*_question_*
Property as question.
Indicate other question that could be managed by the current ADC|Type of the property|
|mode|false|Enumeration based on "xsd:NCName":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_NCName.html
*_static_*
Value which could not contains AskiaScript code.
*_dynamic_*
Value which could contains AskiaScript code.
Using the dynamic value, the _min_, _max_, _decimal_, _pattern_, _fileExtension_ attributes will be verified at the runtime.
If the AskiaScript code evaluated produce an invalid value then the default value will be used instead.|Indicates that the value of the property could embed AskiaScript code (default is 'static')|
|visible|false|"xsd:boolean":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_boolean.html|Indicate if the property is visible by the user in the interface (private property, default it's true)|
|require|false|"xsd:boolean":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_boolean.html|Indicate that a value is require for this property. (default true)|

Additional attributes for the string property

{background:#007dc5; color:white}. |Attribute name|Require|Type|Description|
|pattern|false|"xsd:normalizedString":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_normalizedString.html|The regular expression pattern will be use to validate the value entered.|

Additional attributes for the number property

{background:#007dc5; color:white}. |Attribute name|Require|Type|Description|
|min|false|"numberPattern":manifest.textile#2-number-pattern|Indicates the minimum allowed value. (default '*')|
|max|false|"numberPattern":manifest.textile#2-number-pattern|Indicates the maximum allowed value. (default '*')|
|decimal|false|"numberPattern":manifest.textile#2-number-pattern|Indicate the maximum number of decimal digits allowed. (default 0)|

Additional attributes for the color property

{background:#007dc5; color:white}. |Attribute name|Require|Type|Description|
|colorFormat|false|Enumerator based on "xsd:NCName":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_NCName.html
_rgb_
_rgba_
_hexa_|Indicates the format of the color (default 'rgb')|

Additional attributes for the file property

{background:#007dc5; color:white}. |Attribute name|Require|Type|Description|
|fileExtension|false|"xsd:token":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_token.html with the following pattern
<pre><code>((\.([a-zA-Z0-9]{1,10}|\*))+\s*,?\s*)+</code></pre>|Indicates the allowed extension(s) of the file separate with the coma. (default '.*')|

Additional attributes for the question property

{background:#007dc5; color:white}. |Attribute name|Require|Type|Description|
|chapter|false|"xsd:boolean":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_boolean.html|Indicates if the chapter is allowed (default false).|
|single|false|"xsd:boolean":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_boolean.html|Indicates if the single closed question is allowed  (default false).|
|multiple|false|"xsd:boolean":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_boolean.html|Indicates if the multi-coded question is allowed (default false).|
|numeric|false|"xsd:boolean":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_boolean.html|Indicates if the numeric question is allowed (default false).|
|open|false|"xsd:boolean":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_boolean.html|Indicates if the open-ended question is allowed (default false).|
|date|false|"xsd:boolean":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_boolean.html|Indicates if the date question is allowed  (default false).|

h2. &lt;description&gt;

Free form text to describes the aim of the property.
The description could be used by the AskiaDesign as tooltip or help panel.

* "xsd:string":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_string.html
* Optional
* [0..n]
* Parent node: "&lt;property&gt;":#property

h2. &lt;value&gt;

Default value of the property.
This value will be cast according to the type of the property.

* "xsd:string":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_string.html
* Require
* [1..n]
* Parent node: "&lt;property&gt;":#property

h3. Attributes

{background:#007dc5; color:white}. |Attribute name|Require|Type|Description|
|-_theme_-|false|"xsd:normalizedString":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_normalizedString.html|*%{background:red;color:white;padding:0 10px;}Deprecated%*
*This features will be drop in the next version. Please avoid it's usage*
Indicates the theme associated with that value ("default" by default).
A property must have a single value per theme.
Take in account that when the theme is not specify the value "default" is used
*Remarks:* This attribute is not allowed in askia property |

h2. &lt;options&gt;

Enumerates all allowed values.
Will be appear as a drop-down in the user interface.

* Optional
* [0..1]
* Parent node: "&lt;property&gt;":#property
* Child nodes: "&lt;option&gt;":#option

h2. &lt;option&gt;

Allowed choice.

* Self close node
* Require
* [2..n]
* Parent node: "&lt;options&gt;":#options

h3. Attributes

{background:#007dc5; color:white}. |Attribute name|Require|Type|Description|
|value|true|"xsd:normalizedString":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_normalizedString.html|Value of the option|
|text|true|"xsd:normalizedString":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_normalizedString.html|User friendly text of the option.|

h2. &lt;property xsi:type=&quot;askiaProperty&quot;&gt;

Predefined system property auto-managed by the system.
All system properties id is a reserved identifier which could not be used in the standard &lt;property xsi:type="standardProperty"&gt;.

* Optional
* [0..n]
* Parent node: "&lt;category&gt;":#category
* Child nodes: "&lt;value&gt;":#value, "&lt;options&gt;":#options

*Also see:*

* "&lt;property xsi:type=&quot;askiaProperty&quot; id=&quot;askia-addDK&quot;&gt;":#property-xsitypeaskiaproperty-idaskia-adddk
* "&lt;property xsi:type=&quot;askiaProperty&quot; id=&quot;askia-maxIterations&quot;&gt;":#property-xsitypeaskiaproperty-idaskia-maxiterations

{background:#007dc5; color:white}. |Attribute name|Require|Type|Description|
|xsi:type|true|"xsd:QName":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_QName.html|Must always be "askiaProperty" for the reserved askia property.
Also see:"&lt;property xsi:type=&quot;standardProperty&quot;&gt;":#property-xsitypestandardproperty |
|id|true|Enumeration based on "xsd:NCName":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_NCName.html
*_askia-theme_*
*%{background:red;color:white;padding:0 10px;}Deprecated%*
*This features will be drop in the next version. Please avoid it's usage*
List all possible themes.
This system property require the usage of "&lt;options&gt;":#options
*_askia-addDK_*
*%{background:green;color:white;padding:0 10px;}ADC only%*
Allows users to add an additional "Don't know" answer to enforce the respondent answer.
Mostly used for open-ended, numeric and date questions.
*_askia-maxIterations_*
Allows users to indicates the max iterations they want to display for a question inside a loop.
This property is automatically generated by the system when the question is inside a loop.
It's not require to mention it into the manifest file.|Id of the system property to set.|
|visible|false|"xsd:boolean":http://www.schemacentral.com/sc/xsd/t-xsd_boolean.html|Indicate if the variable is visible by the user in the interface AskiaDesign (private property, default it's true)|

h2. &lt;property xsi:type=&quot;askiaProperty&quot; id=&quot;askia-theme&quot;&gt;

*%{background:red;color:white;padding:0 10px;}Deprecated%*
*This features will be drop in the next version. Please avoid it's usage*

List the possible all themes.
Allow properties to have default "&lt;value&gt;":#value for each theme.
If a property doesn't specify the theme, the theme named 'default' will be automatically associated with it.


*Remarks:*

It require the usage of "&lt;options&gt;":#options to list all possible themes.

The standard equivalent definition of this system property is:

<pre><code class="xml"><property xsi:type="standardProperty" id="askia-theme" name="Theme" type="string" mode="dynamic">
   <description>Predefined themes</description>
   <value>default</value>
   <options>
       <option value="default" text="Default" />
       <!-- + all other specified themes -->
   </options>
</property></code></pre>

*Example:*

<pre><code class="xml"><properties>
  <property xsi:type="askiaProperty" id="askia-theme">
       <options>
           <option value="red-theme" text="Red" />
           <option value="green-theme" text="Green" />
           <option value="blue-theme" text="Blue" />
      </options>
   </property>
   <property xsi:type="standardProperty" id="tickColor" name="Tick color" type="color">
      <value>0,0,0</value>
      <value theme="red-theme">255,0,0</value>
      <value theme="green-theme">0,255,0</value>
      <value theme="blue-theme">0,0,255</value>
   </property>
</properties></code></pre>

h2. &lt;property xsi:type=&quot;askiaProperty&quot; id=&quot;askia-addDK&quot;&gt;

*%{background:green;color:white;padding:0 10px;}ADC only%*

Once this system property is present in the config file, it allow user to generate an extra input for the "Don't know" answer.
It's specially useful for the non-closed questions such as open-ended, numeric or date.

*Remarks:*

The additional "Don't know" answer could be accessible through the AskiaScript code:

<pre><code class="vb">Dim lastResponseIndex = CurrentQuestion.AvailableResponses.Count - 1
CurrentQuestion.AvailableResponses[lastResponseIndex]</code></pre>

The standard equivalent definition of this system property is:

<pre><code class="xml"><property xsi:type="standardProperty" id="askia-addDK" name="Add &quot;Don't know&quot; input" type="boolean" mode="static">
   <description>Add a "Don't know" input to enforce the answer</description>
   <value>false</value>
</property></code></pre>

*Example:*

<pre><code class="xml"><properties>
   <property xsi:type="askiaProperty" id="askia-addDK" />
</properties></code></pre>

h2. &lt;property xsi:type=&quot;askiaProperty&quot; id=&quot;askia-maxIterations&quot;&gt;

This system property is automatically displayed in the interface when the question is in a loop.
It allow user to indicates how many iterations he want to display.

The value associated is used in conjunction of the _maxIterations_ attribute of the "&lt;output&gt;":manifest_outputs.textile#output element.
The system will use the minimal value of both.

*Remarks:*

It's not necessary to explicitly create this property, the system will automatically create it.

*Also see:*

"Output max iterations rules":generation_rules.textile#output-max-iterations-rules

The standard equivalent definition of this system property is:

<pre><code class="xml"><property xsi:type="standardProperty" id="askia-maxIterations" name="Max. iterations" type="number" mode="dynamic">
   <description>Indicates the maximum number of iterations to display</description>
   <value>0</value>
</property></code></pre>

*"&lt;&lt; Manifest - Outputs":manifest_outputs.textile* | *"Manifest - Functions &gt;&gt;":manifest_functions.textile*